---
layout: post
title: Make a Pull Request using GitHub API and OAuth App
tags:
- GSoC
- SPDX
- Django
- GitHub
- FOSS
---

# Make a Pull Request using GitHub API and OAuth App
This post describes how I made the GitHub integration of my GSoC project. The main motive of this feature was, when the user is done editing the XML document, he can submit his changes through a pull request in the `license-xml` repository with just a click of a button.

This post will be helpful if you want to learn about:
* integrating Third Party OAuth in Django
* GitHub OAuth Apps
* GitHub API

## Basic Idea
Since the pull request had to be made on behalf of the user, that's why I choose to go with the GitHub OAuth App instead of general GitHub Apps. When the user registers using these OAuth apps, GitHub provide us with a unique access token, using which we access the API on behalf of that user and make the Pull Request. A simpler way of doing this was to make a bot account, generate API access token for it and use it to make all the pull requests but that could be very easily spammed and there would be no way to know who actually made the pull request.

## Integrating Third Party OAuth in Django
The OAuth feature can be added to a Django website using the  [`social-auth-app-django`](https://pypi.org/project/social-auth-app-django/) package. This is very easy to use, supports both Python 2 and 3 and also has a good documentation. Install it using `pip install social-auth-app-django`. In the `settings.py` file, add this package to the `INSTALLED_APPS` and also update the configurations such as `MIDDLEWARE_CLASSES`, `context_processors`, `AUTHENTICATION_BACKENDS`. Migrate the database to add all the tables of this package.  For a descriptive info about the configs refer to the [docs](http://python-social-auth.readthedocs.io/en/latest/configuration/django.html)

After this go to your GitHub settings and from the Developer Settings, [make a new OAuth App](https://github.com/settings/applications/new). Fill up all the required entries. The callback URL is the address where the app will redirect after the user is done with the authentication. If you want for testing purpose use `http://localhost:8000/oauth/complete/github` else replace the localhost with your site's domain name (can be changed later). Once your app is made, copy the `Client ID` and `Client Secret` and assign them to `SOCIAL_AUTH_GITHUB_KEY` and `SOCIAL_AUTH_GITHUB_SECRET` variable in `settings.py` file.

By default the OAuth App only gives access to user's info, if we want more access then we can request access permission from users by defining [scopes](https://developer.github.com/apps/building-oauth-apps/understanding-scopes-for-oauth-apps/) for our GitHub App. For making the pull request we would need access to the users repos so add the `SOCIAL_AUTH_GITHUB_SCOPE` variable to `settings.py` file and set it to `['public_repo']`.

Your basic GitHub OAuth is ready, you can add more features to the authentication process by using [Pipelines](http://python-social-auth.readthedocs.io/en/latest/pipeline.html). Pipelines allow us to add our custom functions in the default authentication process of the `social-auth-app-django`. In my case I wanted to store user's info in one more table in the database, so made a function which did that and then added it to the pipeline.

## Pull Request Process
The `requests` package can be used to make different type of API requests to the GitHub API. All the requests must include the following headers, where token is the user token that is generated after authentication with OAuth App:
```
{
    "Accept":"application/vnd.github.machine-man-preview+json",
    "Authorization":"bearer "+token,
    "Content-Type":"application/json",
}
```
To make the pull request I followed the following workflow:
* Check if the user has the original repository forked, if not then fork it using the [Forks API](https://developer.github.com/v3/repos/forks/#create-a-fork)
* If the user already has the repo forked for some time then it might be behind the upstream/master by some commits. To update it first get the `SHA` of the upstream/master using the `get` request at `https://api.github.com/repos/:owner/:repo/git/refs/head/master` and then send a `patch` request at `https://api.github.com/repos/:username/:repo/git/refs/head/master` with the `SHA` included in the request body. Again send a `get` request at `https://api.github.com/repos/:username/:repo/git/refs/head/master` and store the `SHA` in a variable as this will be used later.
* Then we create a branch by sending a `post` request at `https://api.github.com/repos/:username/:repo/git/refs` with the following body (`SHA` is the one that we stored above):
```
{
    "ref":"refs/heads/"+branchName,
    "sha":sha,
}
```
From the response of this request copy the `SHA` of the new branch created.
* Commit can be easily created using the [Contents API](https://developer.github.com/v3/repos/contents/).
* After we have made the commit with all changes in it, we can finally make the Pull Request using the [Pull Request API](https://developer.github.com/v3/pulls/#create-a-pull-request).

## My Implementation
The way I integrated this feature into the XML Editor, was by first authenticating the user to the GitHub App, then providing him with a form which included `Branch Name`, `File Name` ,`Commit Message`, `Pull Request Title`, `Pull Request Body`. After the user has filled valid info in the form then sending an Ajax Request to a Django View which would handel the pull request process and return the results (error or success). While making the pull request I also checked if the given branch name exists, if so then appending some random text to the name. Also I checked if the given file name already exists, if it exists then use the Update File API else use the Create File API.

You can have a look at the project [here](http://13.57.134.254/app/xml_upload/). Please post your doubts and questions in the comments below.
