---
layout: post
title: What to expect from TCS NQT Digital Exam 2019
tags:
- TCS
- Hiring
- NQT
- Digital
---

# What to expect from TCS NQT Digital Exam 2019

I recently filled out the application for the TCS NQT exam which is a digital exam for recruitment at TCS. There are two stages involved in the exam the first is the exam for Ninja position which is relatively easier to qualify and those who clear this exam are eligible for the exam for Digital position which is a more reputed post and also has higher pay. In this post I'll be discussing the pattern and type of questions asked in the Digital exam.

The exam for Digital was of 2 hours and was divided into 4 sections:

* **English (Vocabulary)**
* **Quantitative Aptitude**
* **Programming Logic**
* **Coding**

## English (Vocabulary)

There were **15 questions** in this section which had to be solved in **10 minutes**. The questions were of following types:

* Fill in the blanks
* Sentence Rearrangement
* Paragraph Comprehension

Although some questions in this section were tricky but it was doable in the time provided.

## Quantitative Aptitude

This section also had **15 questions** which had to be solved in **30 minutes**. The questions were form the following topics:

* Permutation and Combination
* Probability
* Geometry
* Distance and Velocity

I found the questions in this section to be quite difficult, this might be because I don't practice this subject regularly. If you solve aptitude questions regularly then you might find thee questions easier.

## Programming Logic

This section contained **12 questions** which had to be solved in **25 minutes**. All the questions were given with a code snippet, in Java and C++ language, and we had to tell the output of the given code.
I had worked with C language so was able to find the answers but since I didn't had much experience with Java so I had to guess the answers to most of the questions.

## Coding

This section had only one problem statement and we had to write the code to solve that problem. The problem that was given to me was to print all the prime numbers in a given range and the range can be between (1<=a<b<10^9). I tried the brute force approach to find the prime numbers but the Time Limit was exceeded. After the exam when I looked for the solution I found out that there is an algorithm (Segmented Sieve) specifically to solve this problem. IMO TCS people should not have given such a problem which could only be solved using an algorithm, this way only the candidates who had  knowledge about this algo could solve the question. Instead the question should have been puzzle type wherein the candidates had to understand the problem and then must form their own solution on the spot and not simply implement a pre-made algo.

Overall the level of the exam is average and not very tough, if you practice the topics regularly you can easily crack the exam. All the best :+1:
